README.md, before:

# teamleader/api documentation

#### IMPORTANT: Do not edit `/apiary.apib`

The `apiary.apib` file in the root of this repository should only be generated using [Hercule](https://github.com/jamesramsay/hercule). If you wish to update the docs, edit the files in `src/`.

The root `apiary.apib` is still committed in this repository so apiary.io can read it.

## Branches

This repository has, besides `master`, two important branches: [`v1`](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api/tree/v1) and [`v2`](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api/tree/v2). Following rules apply: 

- `v1` documents the exisiting API (living in [teamleadercrm/core](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/core/tree/development/public_html/api)).
- `v2` will document how we want a more modern API to look. We will implement those changes by changing [teamleadercrm/api-proxy](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api-proxy).
- As long as `v2` is under development, `master` will coincide with `v1` (merge all `v1` changes to `master`).
- Functionality of the existing API should not be changed any further. The only commits made to `v1` should aim to complete the documentation.
- Additions to `v1` should be copied over to `v2` as well, ensuring those changes respect the structure of `v2` (URL style, authentication, request and response bodies...)

## Building the docs

Install Hercule

```bash
$ npm install -g hercule
```

After making the necessary changes, build the docs.

```bash
hercule src/apiary.apic -o apiary.apib
```

### Automatically building the docs

If you don't want to execute the above command manually every time you change the docs, add the following pre-commit hook:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
git diff --cached --name-status | while read st file; do
	dir=$(dirname "$file")
	if [[ $dir == src* ]]
	then
		echo "Generating apiary.apib"
		hercule src/apiary.apib -o apiary.apib
		git add apiary.apib
		break
	fi
done
```

The `pre-commit` hook file is placed in the `.git/hooks` folder. 

**Note:** If you exclusively use this documentation from the api-proxy as a git submodule, the hooks folder is in `../.git/modules/docs/hooks`. 

## Verifying docs

You can lint the apib file to make sure it's valid. 

First install `apib-lint` 

```bash
$ npm install -g apib-lint 
```

Then lint the file

```bash
$ apib-lint apiary.apib
```

Commit message:

Replace previous build instructions with instructions for gulp

README.md, after:

# teamleader/api documentation

#### IMPORTANT: Do not edit `/apiary.apib`

The `apiary.apib` file in the root of this repository should only be generated using [Hercule](https://github.com/jamesramsay/hercule). If you wish to update the docs, edit the files in `src/`.

The root `apiary.apib` is still committed in this repository so apiary.io can read it.

## Branches

This repository has, besides `master`, two important branches: [`v1`](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api/tree/v1) and [`v2`](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api/tree/v2). Following rules apply:

- `v1` documents the exisiting API (living in [teamleadercrm/core](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/core/tree/development/public_html/api)).
- `v2` will document how we want a more modern API to look. We will implement those changes by changing [teamleadercrm/api-proxy](https://github.com/teamleadercrm/api-proxy).
- As long as `v2` is under development, `master` will coincide with `v1` (merge all `v1` changes to `master`).
- Functionality of the existing API should not be changed any further. The only commits made to `v1` should aim to complete the documentation.
- Additions to `v1` should be copied over to `v2` as well, ensuring those changes respect the structure of `v2` (URL style, authentication, request and response bodies...)

## Building the docs

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install -g gulp-cli
npm install
```

Run `gulp build` to build. This will perform two operations:

1. Run `hercule` which "compiles" `src/apiary.apib` into `./apiary.apib`
2. Run `docprint` to generate HTML from `./apiary.apib`

Once you built the docs, you can open `build/php/index.html` in your browser to preview.

Run `gulp` when in development to automatically build when files change.

### Automatically building the docs before commit

If you want to make sure you don't forget to build the docs before you commit, add the following pre-commit hook:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
git diff --cached --name-status | while read st file; do
	dir=$(dirname "$file")
	if [[ $dir == src* ]]
	then
		echo "Generating apiary.apib"
		hercule src/apiary.apib -o apiary.apib
		git add apiary.apib
		break
	fi
done
```

The `pre-commit` hook file is placed in the `.git/hooks` folder.

**Note:** If you exclusively use this documentation from the api-proxy as a git submodule, the hooks folder is in `../.git/modules/docs/hooks`.

## Verifying docs

You can lint the apib file to make sure it's valid.

First install `apib-lint`

```bash
$ npm install -g apib-lint
```

Then lint the file

```bash
$ apib-lint apiary.apib
```
